---
title: Data
---

### Where does the data come from?

The competent authorities of the EU member states have to publish the
recipients and amounts of subsidy payments. Stefan Wehrmeyer has collected and
collated this data over the last ten years and processed it in cooperation with
Arena for Journalism in Europe and data journalist Simon Wörpel.

However, the idea for the project was born much earlier. The two Danish
journalists Niels Mulvad and Kjeld Hansen began to request and collect relevant
data through the Freedom of Information Act as early as 2003. Only a short time
later, their colleague Brigitte Alfter, who now heads Arena for Journalism in
Europe, also got involved, and in 2005 Nils Mulvad and Jack Thurston from the
UK founded the Farmsubsidy.org network with the aim of documenting subsidies.
The first major wave of media reports emerged in 2004-2010, and journalists
from all over Europe still gather for the annual Dataharvest research
conference - originally the meeting place of the Farmsubsidy network.

### Why are some names in the publication anonymised and not accessible to all?

Unfortunately, the German Agricultural and Fisheries Fund Information Act puts
a spanner in the works. We are only allowed to show the names of subsidy
recipients from the past two years, after that we have to depublish the
information.

To get access to the complete data as researcher or journalist, please print out the [data usage agreement](/farmsubsidy_datausage_agreement_2023_EN.pdf), sign it and send the paper version via post to:

Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland e.V.

Singerstraße 109

D-10179 Berlin

As soon as we received the original document we'll send you the login by email. You can also scan the signed document and send it to [farmsubsidy@okfn.de](mailto:farmsubsidy@okfn.de) beforehand so that you receive your login data earlier. Nevertheless, you have to send the original to the adress above, too.


### What did we do with the data?

In cooperation with WDR, NDR, Süddeutsche Zeitung, Correctiv, Der Standard,
IrpiMedia, Reporter.lu, Reporters United, Expresso, Follow The Money and Gazeta
Wyborcza, FragDenStaat analysed the data and published it jointly on 1 December
2022 at 18:00.

[You can find a list of published stories here.](/stories)


### Why do numbers differ in publications and this website?

In several cases we have discovered discrepancies, inaccuracies and
straightforward mistakes in the data published or released to us and wherever
possible we have queried this with the relevant government agencies.
Ultimately, the data available on this site is only as good as the data we have
received from the governments. We do not change the data we have received from
governments so if you think you have identified an error in the data you should
notify the relevant government agency and, if possible, let us know too.

Please note that our numbers only summarise the contents of our database and
are *not* official statistics. Plus, due to legal reasons, not all data is
public on this platform.

**Because of this limitations and different levels of data quality, official
numbers published by governments or in media stories might (slightly) differ
from what you find on this website and are most likely a bit higher.**

It's general a good idea to consider our numbers and aggregations as *minimum*
values.

### Why is there data from some years and not others?

Prior to 2008, the decision to release data was taken at the level of member
states (or regions) and many refused to release any data at all. Many countries
only began publishing data in 2008. The furthest we go back is 2000, but for
most countries nowhere near all years are covered.

### Why do some recipients appear in the data multiple times?

Most recipients receive money every year, and some companies receive very large
number of payments each year. We do our best to identify identical recipients
within the data but this is very difficult without unique ID codes. Unlike the
US and Mexican governments, the governments of the EU do not publish unique
recipient ID codes that would allow us to track the same recipient over
different years and different data sets.

Our current approach uses normalized values for names and addresses to
deduplicate recipients and tends to be conservative, meaning we are probably
missing a lot deduplication candidates but try to avoid false positives.
