---
title: FAQs
---

## What's this all about?

The aim of farmsubsidy.org is to obtain detailed data relating to payments and
recipients of farm subsidies in every EU member state and make this data
available in a way that is useful to European citizens. Farmsubsidy.org is run
by the Open Knowledge Foundation Germany, a non-profit.

## Where do you get this information from?

All the data presented on this website has either been published directly by EU
country governments, or obtained from them by freedom of information requests.

## I think there are mistakes in your data!

In several cases we have discovered discrepancies, inaccuracies and
straightforward mistakes in the data published or released to us and wherever
possible we have queried this with the relevant government agencies.
Ultimately, the data available on this site is only as good as the data we have
received from the governments. We do not change the data we have received from
governments so if you think you have identified an error in the data you should
notify the relevant government agency and, if possible, let us know too.

## Are you for or against farm subsidies?

This project is the work of a diverse group of journalists and open data
activists committed to increasing the transparency of the Common Agricultural
Policy. We do not share any view of how farm subsidies should operate, other
than in a transparent and open way. We hope that the release of data on the
website will help European citizens to become better informed about how their
money is being spent and contribute to a constructive debate about EU food and
farming policy. While those involved in the project may hold their own opinions
about the Common Agricultural Policy, farmsubsidy.org has no common position
other than the need for greater transparency. If you want to debate the CAP,
you'll find several of the members of the farmsubsidy.org network blogging at
[capreform.eu](http://capreform.eu/), the group blog on the future of European
rural, farming and food policy.

## Isn't this project making life even harder for European farmers?

No, we don't think so. Many farmers have told us that they are not in the least
bit ashamed of receiving public money as they believe they provide important
public services. Others have told us that they think the subsidies are unfair
and this should be revealed. Data relating to farm subsidy payments has been
available in the United States for several years, courtesy of our friends at
the [Environmental Working Group](http://ewg.org/farm) and more recently the
Mexican government has released farm subsidy data too.

## What about the privacy of people listed on the website?

Personal privacy is important but so is fiscal transparency, anti-corruption
and government accountability. We are careful to strike the correct balance. We
do not believe that the information published on the site relates to any
individual's personal situation, rather to his or her professional activities
as a farmer or landowner.

## Who is funding the project?

The project is run by the [Open Knowledge Foundation Germany](https://okfn.de/).

**Currently this project is not funded, but maintained by volunteers.**

EU Transparency and DICAR (Danish International Center for Analytical
Reporting), which founded farmsubsidy.org, have received funding for their farm
subsidy transparency work as follows:

- The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation (a total of $516,000 from 2006 to 2009)
- The German Marshall Fund of the United States ($165,000 in 2010)
- The Open Society Foundation (€22,800 in 2006)
- The European Social Fund (€60,000 from 2005 to 2006).
- The Renewable Freedom Foundation (€5,000 in 2014)

In addition, the various organisations and individuals involved in the project
(e.g. NGOs, media and universities) have their own sources of funding.

## Why does the amount of data differ from one country to another?

Prior to 2008, the decision to release data was taken at the level of member
states (or regions), therefore it is possible that data has be released in
different formats. We regularly update our
[Transparency Index](https://farmsubsidy.org/transparency/) which ranks
countries according to the level of disclosure. We hope that as more and more
governments release data they will do so according to a common format so that
it is possible to analyse the data in a meaningful way across the European
Union.

## Why is there data from some years and not others?

Prior to 2008, the decision to release data was taken at the level of member
states (or regions) and many refused to release any data at all. Many countries
only began publishing data in 2008. The furthest we go back is 2000, but for
most countries nowhere near all years are covered.

## Why do some recipients appear in the data multiple times?

Most recipients receive money every year, and some companies receive very large
number of payments each year. We do our best to identify identical recipients
within the data but this is very difficult without unique ID codes. Unlike the
US and Mexican governments, the governments of the EU do not publish unique
recipient ID codes that would allow us to track the same recipient over
different years and different data sets. This means it is quite possible that
the same recipient crops in the data more than once. This is one of the reasons
we have provided the List tool, which allows users of the website to make lists
of recipients and publish them. One application of the List tool is to group
together all the payments going to a large company and all its various
subsidiary companies.

## Why doesn't my search work? Why am I experiencing problems accessing the website?

We are still ironing out technical issues. So please be patient but do not
hesitate to get in touch if something is not working or you have suggestions
for how it could work better.

## How can I get involved?

If you think you could help out with the project, please get in touch. We are
particularly keen to make contact with people who want to help obtain farm
subsidy data in the member states where it has not yet been released. We also
welcome donations to help continue our work. And we'd love to have more users
to test out new features we're developing.

## Can I have the source data on your website?

Yes, [data is available here](http://data.farmsubsidy.org) under the ODbL.

## How can I contact you?

Send an email to farmsubsidy[at]openspending.org.
